docs/administer/manage_namespaces.md, before:

# Namespaces management

The management of namespaces plays a vital role in efficiently organizing and allocating resources within Percona Everest.

## Add new namespaces

You can run the following command for provisioning a new DB namespace:

```sh
everestctl namespaces add [NAMESPACE]
```

The command supports the following flags:

`--operator.mongodb=<bool>`

`--operator.postgresql=<bool>`

`--operator.xtradb-cluster=<bool>`

`--take-ownership` - If the namespace exists, it will be adopted. If set to false, Percona Everest will throw an error.


## Delete namespaces

You can run the following command for deleting namespaces:

```sh
everestctl namespaces delete [NAMESPACE]
```

- This command deletes only the specified namespace, as long as it is managed by Percona Everest.

- Setting the `--keep-namespace` option will delete all operators in the namespace but will not remove the namespace itself. It will only remove the Percona Everest label.


## Update namespaces

You can run the following command to add more operators to the DB namespace.


```sh
everestctl namespaces update [NAMESPACE] 
```

!!! note
    The `everestctl install` command can provision a DB namespace. However, if you run this command again, an error will be thrown: `Everest is already installed.`


- To provision a DB namespace after installation, use the command `everestctl namespaces add`. 

- You may choose to skip the DB namespace installation in the `everestctl install` command.

Commit message:

added example for add command

docs/administer/manage_namespaces.md, after:

# Namespaces management

The management of namespaces plays a vital role in efficiently organizing and allocating resources within Percona Everest.

## Add new namespaces

You can run the following command for provisioning a new DB namespace:

```sh
everestctl namespaces add [NAMESPACE]
```

The command supports the following flags:

`--operator.mongodb=<bool>`

`--operator.postgresql=<bool>`

`--operator.xtradb-cluster=<bool>`

`--take-ownership` - If the namespace exists, it will be part of Percona Everest. If it is set to false, Percona Everest will throw an error.

 ??? example "Example"
    
    ./everestctl namespaces add production --kubeconfig /Users/rasikachivate/Downloads/Kubeconfig 

    ? Which operators do you want to install? MongoDB    
    ✓ Installing namespace 'production'


## Update namespaces

You can run the following command to add more operators to the DB namespace.


```sh
everestctl namespaces update [NAMESPACE] 
```

!!! note
    The `everestctl install` command can provision a DB namespace. However, if you run this command again, an error will be thrown: `Everest is already installed.`


- To provision a DB namespace after installation, use the command `everestctl namespaces add`. 

- You may choose to skip the DB namespace installation in the `everestctl install` command.


## Delete namespaces

You can run the following command for deleting namespaces:

```sh
everestctl namespaces delete [NAMESPACE]
```

- This command deletes only the specified namespace, as long as it is managed by Percona Everest.

- Setting the `--keep-namespace` option will delete all operators in the namespace but will not remove the namespace itself. It will only remove the Percona Everest label.
