docs/use/db_provision.md, before:

# Provision a database

Provisioning a database instance involves setting up and configuring a database instance on the Percona Everest platform.

## Procedure

To provision a new database:
{.power-number}

1. Log into the Percona Everest UI.

2. On the Percona Everest homepage, click **Create Database**. The **Basic information** page opens.

    ![!image](../images/everest_db_provision.png)

3. On the **Basic information** page, provide the following details:

    a. Select the **Namespace** where you want to create your database.

    b. Select the **Database type**: MySQL, MongoDB or PostgreSQL.

    c. Choose a name for your database. The name is auto-populated, but you can modify it according to your needs.

    d. Select the **Database version** from the dropdown.

    e. In the **Storage class** field, select one of the classes created by your Kubernetes administrator. Storage classes define what storage configuration and features will be used for storing your database data. Different classes map to different quality-of-service levels, backup policies, persistent volumes, or to arbitrary policies determined by your cluster administrator. For more information, see [Storage Classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/){:target="_blank"} in the Kubernetes documentation. 

    ![!image](../images/everest_multi-namespaces.png)

8. Click **Continue**. The **Resources** page opens.

9. On the **Resources** page select the **Number of nodes**. Also, set the resources per node by selecting one of the predefined presets or by specifying the CPU, Memory, and Disk. For more information on resources, see the [Scale database deployment](../use/scaling.md).

10. Click **Continue**. The **Scheduled Backups** page opens where you can set up a schedule if you wish to run backup jobs for your new database. Enter the following information on this page:

    a. Choose a name for your database. The name is auto-populated, but you can modify it according to your needs.
    b. Select the backup storage from the dropdown.
    c. Enter the retension copies of the

11. On the **Advanced Configurations** page, you can enable external access and database engine parameters by turning the toggle button on.

12. On the **Monitoring** page, you can enable monitoring by turning the toggle button on and selecting the **Monitoring endpoint URL**. For information on adding endpoints, see [monitoring endpoints](../use/monitor_endpoints.md).

13. Click **Create Database**.

14. Click **Go to list of my databases** to see the database that you provisioned.

    ![!image](../images/everest_provisioned_db.png)

## Video tutorial

You can also learn about creating databases by checking the video tutorial below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Oq1XKB8VXUk?si=JBLVJ9zBfpHGxL2I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

added an image for schedule backups.

docs/use/db_provision.md, after:

# Provision a database

Provisioning a database instance involves setting up and configuring a database instance on the Percona Everest platform.

## Procedure

To provision a new database:
{.power-number}

1. Log into the Percona Everest UI.

2. On the Percona Everest homepage, click **Create Database**. The **Basic information** page opens.

    ![!image](../images/everest_db_provision.png)

3. On the **Basic information** page, provide the following details:

    a. Select the **Namespace** where you want to create your database.

    b. Select the **Database type**: MySQL, MongoDB or PostgreSQL.

    c. Choose a name for your database. The name is auto-populated, but you can modify it according to your needs.

    d. Select the **Database version** from the dropdown.

    e. In the **Storage class** field, select one of the classes created by your Kubernetes administrator. Storage classes define what storage configuration and features will be used for storing your database data. Different classes map to different quality-of-service levels, backup policies, persistent volumes, or to arbitrary policies determined by your cluster administrator. For more information, see [Storage Classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/){:target="_blank"} in the Kubernetes documentation. 

    ![!image](../images/everest_multi-namespaces.png)

4. Click **Continue**. The **Resources** page opens.

5. On the **Resources** page select the **Number of nodes**. Also, set the resources per node by selecting one of the predefined presets or by specifying the CPU, Memory, and Disk. For more information on resources, see the [Scale database deployment](../use/scaling.md).

6. Click **Continue**. The **Scheduled Backups** page opens where you can set up a schedule if you wish to run backup jobs for your new database. Provide the following details on this page:

    a. Choose a name for your database. The name is auto-populated, but you can modify it according to your needs.
    b. Select the **Backup storage** from the dropdown.
    c. Enter the number of **Retention copies** for the backups. Retention copies refer to the number of backup instances that should be kept.

    ![!image](../images/everest_scheduled_backups.png)    


7. Click **Continue**. The **Point-in-time Recovery (PITR)** page opens.

8. On the **Point-in-time Recovery (PITR)** page you can enable PITR by turning the toggle on.

7. Click **Continue**. The **Advanced Configurations** page opens.

8. On the **Advanced Configurations** page, you can enable external access and database engine parameters by turning the toggle button on. For in-depth information, see the [configure database engine](../configure/db_engine_config.md)

9. Click **Continue**. The **Monitoring** page opens.

10. On the **Monitoring** page, you can enable monitoring by turning the toggle button on and selecting the **Monitoring endpoint URL**. For information on adding endpoints, see [monitoring endpoints](../use/monitor_endpoints.md).

13. Click **Create Database**.

14. Click **Go to list of my databases** to see the database that you provisioned.

    ![!image](../images/everest_provisioned_db.png)

## Video tutorial

You can also learn about creating databases by checking the video tutorial below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Oq1XKB8VXUk?si=JBLVJ9zBfpHGxL2I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
